README.md, before:

# 📁 File Organizer & Report Generator (Python)

This project is a collection of Python scripts that organize external folders
and files based on naming rules and generate various reports in CSV format.

## 📌 Features

- Cleans empty folders
- Renames folders and files based on rules and a dictionary
- Organizes files into structured folders (e.g., `C01_`, `C04_`)
- Generates multiple CSV reports:
  - All folder names with paths
  - Unique folder names
  - File type extensions and counts
  - Excel files with the word "indice" in the name
- Identifies empty files and files without extensions

## 🚀 Getting Started

### ✅ Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- Python 3.12+
- pip
- Git
- Chocolatey (Windows)
- Make
- (Optional) `make` to simplify setup

### 🔧 Setup

You can run the setup automatically with `make`:

```bash
make check      # Check prerequisites
make setup      # Create virtual environment and install dependencies
```

Or manually:

```bash
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate      # On Windows
source venv/bin/activate  # On Linux/macOS

pip install -r requirements.txt
pre-commit install
```

## 🧩 Usage

Run a specific script (e.g. generate the index file):

```bash
make run ARGS="--steps 1 2 3"
```

## 📂 Project Structure

```text
.
├── data/                     # Helper files with data required by the scripts
├── docs/                     # Extra documentation
├── src/                      # Source of python code
├── tests/                    # Unit tests
├── v0-1/                     # Deprecated scripts (Will be removed)
├── tests/                    # Python virtual environment
├── .gitignore                # G configurations
├── .pre-commit-config.yaml   # Linting rules
├── requirements.txt          # Python requirements
├── README.md                 # Main documentation page
└── Makefile                  # Helper commands to run the project
```

## 🧪 Development

To run linting and enforce code standards:

```bash
make lint
```

Pre-commit hooks are configured for:

- black
- flake8
- isort
- end-of-file-fixer
- trailing-whitespace

## 🙌 Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first.

Commit message:

feat: Add Documentation and Unit tests
Add documentation files to split large markdown file
Add unit test for step´0
Add CODEOWNERS file and documentation about this file
Add Github Workflow for CI actions
Remove reporter folder due unused code
Refactor Makefile file to validate .env file
Add .env-example file
Add dotenv requirement
Move legacy documentation to V1 folder

README.md, after:

# 📁 File Organizer & Report Generator (Python)

This project is a collection of Python scripts that organize external folders
and files based on naming rules and generate various reports in CSV format.

## 📌 Features

- Cleans empty folders
- Renames folders and files based on rules and a dictionary
- Organizes files into structured folders (e.g., `C01_`, `C04_`)
- Generates multiple CSV reports:
  - All folder names with paths
  - Unique folder names
  - File type extensions and counts
  - Excel files with the word "indice" in the name
- Identifies empty files and files without extensions

## 🚀 Getting Started

### ✅ Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- Python 3.12+
- pip
- Git
- [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/install)
- Make
- (Optional) `make` to simplify setup

## 🛠️ Environment Configuration

Before running the project, you must create a `.env` file based on the
provided template:

```bash
cp .env-example .env
```

This file contains environment variables required by the scripts, such as
directory paths or configuration settings.

Make sure to adjust the values in `.env` according to your local setup.

### 🔧 Setup

You can run the setup automatically with `make`:

```bash
make check      # Check prerequisites
make setup      # Create virtual environment and install dependencies
```

Or manually:

```bash
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate      # On Windows
source venv/bin/activate  # On Linux/macOS

pip install -r requirements.txt
pre-commit install
```

## 🧩 Usage

Run a specific script (e.g. generate the index file):

```bash
make run ARGS="--steps 1 2 3"
```

## 📂 Project Structure

```text
.
├── data/                     # Helper files with data required by the scripts
├── docs/                     # Extra documentation
├── src/                      # Source of python code
├── tests/                    # Unit tests
├── v0-1/                     # Deprecated scripts (Will be removed)
├── tests/                    # Python virtual environment
├── .gitignore                # G configurations
├── .pre-commit-config.yaml   # Linting rules
├── requirements.txt          # Python requirements
├── README.md                 # Main documentation page
└── Makefile                  # Helper commands to run the project
```

## 🧪 Development

To run linting and enforce code standards:

```bash
make lint
```

Pre-commit hooks are configured for:

- black
- flake8
- isort
- end-of-file-fixer
- trailing-whitespace

## 🧑‍💻 Development Workflow

- Continuous Integration is powered by GitHub Actions. See:
[`docs/ci_pipeline.md`](docs/ci_pipeline.md)
- Repository ownership is managed through [`CODEOWNERS`](CODEOWNERS) — see
[`docs/codeowners_explained.md`](docs/codeowners_explained.md)

## 🙌 Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first.
